---
layout: post
title: "Django"
date: 2025-07-27 01:59:00
description: Learning Django
tags: django python backend
categories: software
---

Django is a Python web framework that allows you to build web applications quickly and easily. It is based on the Model-View-Controller (MVC) architectural pattern and provides a robust set of tools for building web applications.

Django is a high-level Python web framework that encourages rapid development and clean, pragmatic design. Built by experienced developers, it takes care of much of the hassle of web development, so you can focus on writing your app without needing to reinvent the wheel. It’s free and open source.

This is still a work in progress.

## Django Project Structure

A django project is a web application that may consist of one or more sub-modules called apps. A project can be created using the command `django-admin startproject chefsTable`. When you create a project using this command, it creates a container folder with the name of the project. This container folder has the project package folder and a manage.py file. The manage.py file is a local copy of the django-admin utility command. It has the following structure:

chefsTable --> container folder
├── chefsTable --> project package folder
│   ├── __init__.py --> indicating this folder is a python package
│   ├── asgi.py --> asgi standard configuration
│   ├── settings.py --> has settings for apps, database 
│   ├── urls.py --> contains the url patterns for the project
│   └── wsgi.py --> wsgi standard configuration
└── manage.py --> local copy of the django-admin utility command

Note: You can also create a project without the container folder by using the command `django-admin startproject chefsTable .` without the container folder.

## Django App Structure

An app is a sub-module of a django project. It is repsonsible for handling one specific taks/feature of the project. Apps are reusable that is an app in one project folder can be used in another project folder without modification. An app can be created using the command `python manage.py startapp demoapp`. It has the following structure:
